AIR CHIEF MARSHAL
MASIHUZZAMAN SERNIABAT
BBP, OSP, ndu, psc
Air Chief Marshal Masihuzzaman Serniabat, BBP, OSP, ndu, psc was born on 14 February 1962. He joined Bangladesh Air Force on 16 March 1980 as a flight cadet and was commissioned in General Duties (Pilot) branch on 19 June 1982.

In his long distinguished career, Air Chief Marshal Zaman has served in almost all the fighter squadrons of BAF in different appointments and flown a variety of fixed wing aircraft which includes PT-6, Fouga, F-6, F-7, F-7 BG, F-7MB, A-5, YAK-130, SU-30 MKI (A) and MiG-29. He had the unique opportunity of commanding three Fighter Squadrons of Bangladesh Air Force and he had been the pioneer Squadron Commander of the coveted Mig-29 Fighter Squadron of BAF. The Air Chief Marshal also performed his stint as a Qualified Flying Instructor and trained a good number of BAF pilots logging about 2870 flying hours to his credit and is still an active flyer.

Air Chief Marshal Zaman is widely acclaimed in BAF for his altruism, simplicity and honesty both as a person and as a commander. He holds the distinct and honour of commanding two operational BAF Bases namely BAF Base Bir Sreshto Matiur Rahman and BAF Base Bangabandhu. His distinct service is marked with a fine mix of command, instructional and staff appointments. The Air Chief Marshal also served as Deputy Commandant of BAF Academy, Directing Staff and Senior Instructor (Air) in Defence Services Command and Staff College, Mirpur. His significant staff assignments include Director of Air Operations, Director of Air Training, Director of Plans and Air Secretary at Air Headquarters. The Air Chief Marshal has the honour of assuming two Principal Staff Officer appointments at Air Headquarters. Prior to assumption of the command of Bangladesh Air Force on 12 June 2018, he was serving as the Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Operations).

Air Chief Marshal Zaman has attended several professional courses, training and seminars at home and abroad. He attended Defence and Strategic Studies Course in China, APCS Executive Course and Senior International Defence Management Course in USA. He is a graduate of Defence Services Command and Staff College, Mirpur. Besides, he graduated from Royal Malaysian Armed Forces Staff College. He was adorned with the Air Force Medal and Extraordinary Service Medal for his outstanding service to BAF.

The Air Chief Marshal is a widely travelled person. He is a keen Golfer and an ardent reader persuasion of knowledge through reading is his passion. He is happily married to Yasmeen Zaman and blessed with a daughter and a son.